---
layout: post
title: "Thank You 2017"
description: ""
category: 
tags: [video games, xenoblade, nier, persona, switch, ps4, ys, zelda]
---

As we close out 2017 I reflect on the ridiculous year we've had in the video game world. Normally, it's a pretty simple exercise to pick my favorite game of the year. But 2017 was so stacked with games that I thoroughly enjoyed, it's hard to pick just a single one. My highlights of 2017:

* **The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild** (Wii U, Switch) - Breath of the Wild was such an amazing game that I played it when it first came out on the Wii U and recently got it again for the Switch. If it wasn't for Xenoblade, I'd still be replaying this gem again! Unlike the [Wii U's weak opening gambit][1] I'm glad the Switch shipped Day 1 with this masterpiece that [took some big risks that paid off in huge ways][7].
* **Persona 5** (PS4) - Persona 5 was off-the-wall amazing: engaging story, interesting characters, the slickest menu design, and a killer soundtrack. [Persona 4 was so very highly regarded][2] but I felt Persona 5 met those high standards and exceeded them! My only wish for Persona 6: [kill off the silent protaganist][3]!
* **Nier: Automata** (PS4) - I don't think many people expected a game by the eccentric Yoko Taro to have widespread appeal, but Nier: Automata did so many things really well that it is now a contender for Game of the Year in many people's books. I absolutely loved the sci-fi tale of two androids battling against machines. Like the previous Nier, the [soundtrack to Automata is an awe-inspiring masterpiece][4]; Keiichi Okabe literally transfigured miracle into music!
* **Ys VIII: Lacrimosa of Dana** (PS4, Vita) - While not in the running for my top game of 2017, Ys 8 deserves a call out for being [another solid, addictive entry in the Ys series][5]. This game was a ton of fun to play and [much like its predeccessor][6], it got my Vita's battery running on fumes so very often!
* **Xenoblade Chronicles 2** (Switch) - 2017 ends on a high note for me because I've been looking forward to Xenoblade Chronicles 2 since Monolith Soft announced they were working on a new game for the Switch. I'm nearing the end of the story in this entry and I've loved every minute of it. This game is deep and heavy on JRPG goodness. It has its flaws, but my expectations for this game have been met 120%. 

Honeslty, it's impossible for me to pick one (or event two) of these games as my top game of 2017. This year was truly ridiculous in more ways than one. Here's to a crazy 2018... But hopefully only on the video game front!

[1]: {{site.base_url}}/2017/02/28/zelda-breath-of-disappointment/
[2]: {{site.base_url}}/2014/01/12/omfg-persona-4/
[3]: {{site.base_url}}/2017/05/10/kill-silent-protagonists/
[4]: {{site.base_url}}/2017/09/08/music-nier-automata/
[5]: {{site.base_url}}/2017/10/06/initial-impression-ys-8/
[6]: {{site.base_url}}/2014/02/04/three-things-about-ys-memories-of-celceta/
[7]: {{site.base_url}}/2017/03/18/defying-expectations-tales-zelda/